---
readingTime: 5min
layout: post
title: "it hurts"
coverPainting: Untitled, 1950, Sandu Darie
---

> If the confession wasn't bad enough, here is a half-arsed poem I wrote.

It hurts because I know I will never meet someone like you again.

You are the woman I would love to grow old with.

I know you care about me.

I know I won’t want to meet you again, despite how much you adore me.

I have died many deaths and I want to make things right this life, and I want to be the one that makes things right in your life.

It hurts because deep down I knew I was delusional.

I know things will not be so surreal with the next girl (or guy that smells nice), unless I get extremely lucky, which is statistically improbable and it will be in a different setting and I am growing old and it will be new memories and it will not be you.

It hurts because deep down I knew I had self-deceptive tendencies.

I believe in synchronizität<sup><a href="#words">[1]</a></sup> and I believe there is a reason I met you.

I really appreciate the time we spent together and a part of me would love us to stay friends.

But perhaps the reason I met you is to immerse myself in this beautiful feeling of hurt. So I will be wiser. So I can become a psychopath, or an artist, and make a million dollar in the remaining time of my life. And then forget about your name.

It hurts because I really like you as a friend and I believe the connection we have made is something special that will grow into something really beautiful.

I have to cut this connection right now so that I can focus on work, instead of getting distracted because you are a fucking enchantress. And I value my work.

I know I won’t want to meet you again, despite how much I enjoyed the sophisticated side of you.

The clumsy side of you is super cute too, though I have fallen for the sophistication and the sadness in your eyes.

It was disappointing that the men who you slept with that I have met were much less sophisticated than you.

I didn't want to be a cockblock and went drinking alone Wednesday night so you could have sex with this dude with a THC vaporizer that has been hitting on you because I wanted you to have a great night with him but it turned out you didn't have a great night. What a bummer.

And as I was trying to make small talk with this dude, I was really disappointed to learn that, despite owning a THC vaporizer with a dedicated cartridge, this dude was not aware of the emerging billion dollar weed tech industry. And he looked like he's in his early thirty or something. I felt pity for him.

It hurts because a part of me loved and cared about you in some ambiguous and platonic sense. Or maybe I just felt pity for you as well.

Deep down I knew I needed to give you a half-assed confession and then get rejected so I could move on with life. So that I can mutilate romanticism the way romanticism mutilates my pancreas.

It hurts because I get it now, you are not as sophisticated as I have imagined you to be. You are just hot and flirty.

And you reminded me so much of my ex. That's the part that it hurts the most, I guess.

<div id="words"></div>

> [1]: [synchronicity (wikipedia.org)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synchronicity)  
>
>
