---
readingTime: 12min
layout: post
title: "death, infinity, and the story we tell ourselves"
coverPainting: Blossom, 1964, Marc Vaux
---

As much as we tend not to take great delight in acknowledging the fact that physically we are meats wrapped around skeletons on our path to decomposition (and, in some cases, cremation) and amuse ourselves by visualising what that will be like, we are not physiologically wired to appreciate the transient nature of life. It takes great efforts for our reptilian mind to accept and embrace mortality without distantiating the realistic notion of death with imaginary abstractions. As a product of natural evolution akin to all other life forms on Earth, we operate on wetware fine-tuned for survive-and-reproduce. Intelligence is a by-product. And so are our appreciation for arts and our craving for meaning and purposes and cat videos.

Life is short, as Paul Graham would tell you<sup>[1]</sup>. We have a finite window of time in which we get to interact with this world, and with all these people whose windows of time overlap with ours. And then we are gone. Unless you believe in an afterlife there will presumedly be nothing afterwards. It will be truly a transition into infinity in the sense of an eternal void. Nothing. No muse befriends; no invention, no hope; no notion of time; no notion of the future; no notion of the past. A static equilibrium due to the absence of brain activities. Brain dead. Consciousness ceases.

It is as much as an escape from this world into nothingness as it is the surreal ending that promises nothing for eternity. This by definition renders life intrinsically meaningless in that the end goal of life is none-existent. As humans we often have troubles with this notion of death in one way or another. Perhaps we are too used to continuation. Perhaps we are too used to having goals. Perhaps we are too used to meanings and abstractions. The absence of an afterlife i.e. a complete and non-negotiable termination can feel very unsettling even when we try our best ability to accept it. After all, we are obsessed with infinity. And when you mix the concept of infinity with nothingness, it has this unpleasant connotation to it (though in rare cases it can be felt like an enormous relief, such as at times when the notion of nothingness is highly appreciated like during the experience of prolonged intense physical agony). Either way, the mystery of death is unnerving as much as it is fascinating because it is the actualisation of infinity and nothingness. A termination that continues forever.  In this sense, the concept of an afterlife or rebirth is at the expense of the denial of an infinite void but not infinity itself. We are indeed really obsessed with infinity. 

The same way that functional programmers know the value of everything but the cost of nothing<sup>[2]</sup>, our obsession (or meta-obsession) with infinity is the by-product of the very nature of conceptualisation which tends to detach us from physical reality in that the concept of a cat encapsulates infinitely many cats but really there can only exist a finite number of cats in this universe, let alone encountered in one’s self-contained existence of finite time (and with a finite amount of efforts; encountering cats is hard work). Indeed, a brief look into the history of mathematical formalisation starting with Cantor’s work will give use a sense of how fragile (and in many ways dangerous) the intuitionistic approach to infinity can turn out for machines that turn coffee into theorems. The first time we truly have a glimpse into the flaws unto the concept of infinity is in Gödel's proof of the incompleteness theorems, which is really more about the limitation of infinity than popularly believed to be the limitation of a formal system, considering that any useful formalisation of systems in every day life (or to this world) are designed and constructed to be constrained in a finite manner to ever run into anything remotely resembling the inconsistency depicted in the theorems (in the same way that the halting problem doesn’t stop compiler to check for infinite loops in programs), and any valuable formalisation of mathematical concepts and amusement can always be appreciated in a finite amount of time, or they will not be appreciated at all.  

Indeed. Infinity has always been a human construct. As we study and learn about the physical realm we grow a little bit more appreciation for the impossibilism in the physical actualisation of infinity. There exists not infinitely many things for the number of atoms in this universe at any moment in time is finite. We can’t go infinitesimally small like in Zeno’s paradoxes because we are confined within the Planck constant.  No transfer of information in this world in any possible mean is able to exceed 299792458m/s. In this case, looking into the correlation of entangled particle states measured instantaneously at a distance should perhaps be	interpreted as poking into a very fundamental property (type-theoretical and perhaps in many way functional and statelessness-related) about this world than the studying of a correlation which in the physics context often implies an interaction in some way. Either way the physical reality is itself finitely bounded. But this finiteness is derived from the scrutinisation of reality under a framework developed from the notion of quantifying measurements and each measurement corresponds nicely to a finite numerical value which under any sensible operations will only give rise to finite numerical values, and in this way the reality that we talk about is _physical_, and in this way the framework is a lot more useful in terms of applications, especially as technology advances and higher precision in measurements can be obtained with a lower cost<sup>[3]</sup>, tremendously more pragmatic as comparing to other framework such as Medieval Alchemy which emphases on the qualification of the physical world (v.s. quantification in physics and other sciences). This pragmatism deserts the notion of infinity and anything remotely related to infinity (like in String Theory) can never be scientifically verified by the own axiomatisation of the scientific methods. There is a nice correspondence in real life too in that anything pragmatic is ultimately considered within the framework of finite resource allocation and the more finite the pool of resources (in most cases: time & money) we consider of the closer we get to how things will play out and the better the project management becomes, while anything spiraling unto romanticism or approaching infinity in one way or another is often none-accomplishable and will lead to unfavorable consequences though not always the case.

But we are obsessed with infinity. Infinity makes us feel great. Perhaps we operate on infinity. Perhaps feeling great is infinity. When you feel really great and you feel like you have seldom been this level of great before, this level of great is perceptively infinite in the same way that when you have a number line marked with 0 and 1 at both ends and you will ever only go into values from this line and there is no way to instantaneously jump from one value to another once a value has been selected, 1 takes the place of infinity. Conceptually you can go into 0 or 1. But practically you can’t. And perceptively you do from times to times. This is why practising mindfulness is great. In every deep appreciation of the present presents itself the feeling of getting closer to both 0 and 1.

1. http://paulgraham.com/vb.html

2. https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Alan_Perlis

3. https://archive.org/details/differenceengine00doro/
