---
layout: post
title: "Be nice to yourself"
coverPainting: The Marvelous Seed, 1965, Constantin Flondor
---


When was the last time you take a good look at your skin?<br/>
And realise you can never quite find two regions<br/>
that have the exact same patterns.<br/>
<br/>
These patterns, oh they tell a story.<br/>
A story about your genes as well as your environment.<br/>
The same time!<br/>
Take a good look at your skin!<br/>
They carry the history of you and your genes.<br/>
<br/>
We are all lineage of the same being.<br/>
Thou, who first learned how to replicate thyself.<br/>
What a wonderful being.<br/>
We are the same being.<br/>
<br/>
Being nice to yourself is hard work<br/>
for it is not about you nor yourself.<br/>
You are a fuzzy concept.<br/>
Or in many ways a temporary guest.<br/>
To this world. To this body.<br/>
To this mind. To this story.<br/>
<br/>
Being nice to yourself is about being nice to your host.<br/>
To thy organs and veins.<br/>
To thy arteries and heart.<br/>
To thy neurones and nerves.<br/>
<br/>
Take a deep breath.<br/>
In, hale. Ex, hale.<br/>
Feel the inside of your skin.<br/>
The hairy ball theorem suggests<br/>
no nonvanishing continuous tangent vector fields.<br/>
<br/>
In, hale. Ex, hale.<br/>
Let the patterns unfold themselves.<br/>
No force. No blame.<br/>
Breathe.<br/>
<br/>
When things are not folded, they extend.<br/>
When things exist, they interlace.<br/>
<br/>
Being nice to yourself is about being nice to the rhythms.<br/>
Do not perform Fourier transforms on them.<br/>
Let Fourier transforms perform themselves.<br/>
<br/>
Being nice to yourself is about being nice to the present.<br/>
念念念<br/>
ねんねんねん<br/>
Nyan nyan nyan<br/>
The present is an ontological amusement.<br/>
<br/>
Being nice to yourself is about being nice to the origins.<br/>
The two people who fucked.<br/>
And everything that contributed and let to the present.<br/>
<br/>
Being nice to yourself is about being nice to the container.<br/>
That within which the present is encapsulated.<br/>
That within which your host operates.<br/>
Hello world<span style="
  margin-left:3px;
  display: inline-block;
  background-color: #aaa;
  vertical-align: top;
  width: 10px;
  height: 24px;
  -webkit-animation: blink 1s step-end infinite;
  animation: blink 1s step-end infinite;"></span><br/>
